Oct dev update (#90)
irods/irods.org: content/posts/irods-development-update-october-2024.md

Title: iRODS Development Update: October 2024

> Date: 2024-10-15 12:00

Reviewer: 16 now, sorry.

Author: Done

Author: Kory Draughn
Slug: irods-development-update-october-2024
Status: published

Hello reader,

> The temperature is starting to decrease. Hopefully, everyone is staying warm. Let's get into the development update.

Reviewer: northern hemisphere, yes.

Author: Replaced with wording about SC24.

Please review.

> Supercomputing 2024 is here again! If you're attending, swing by the RENCI booth and say hi. Let's get into the development update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Supercomputing 2024]({filename}/pages/sc24.html) is in Atlanta soon! If you're attending, swing by the RENCI booth and say hi. Let's get into the development update.
```

Author: Done

Automated Ingest Capability 0.6.0 has been released as well. With this release comes improved documentation, support for `rsync --delete`-like functionality, and more information about individual jobs in the output of the `list` subcommand. It's been a long time coming, but users will finally be able to remove data objects and collections from iRODS based on the source being ingested. For more information, see the release notes at [https://github.com/irods/irods_capability_automated_ingest/releases/tag/v0.6.0](https://github.com/irods/irods_capability_automated_ingest/releases/tag/v0.6.0).

For the iRODS HTTP API, work to introduce user mapping plugins has been merged. The next release will allow administrators to modify the user mapping in real time. Not only that, but work to add support for local JWT validation has begun. This will help organizations using identity providers which do not expose an introspection endpoint for token validation.

> To wrap up, iRODS S3 API 0.3.0 is available. This release includes support for **ListParts** and **ListMultipartUploads** operations and more importantly, the performance improvements for multipart upload. To learn more, see the release notes at [https://github.com/irods/irods_client_s3_api/releases/tag/0.3.0](https://github.com/irods/irods_client_s3_api/releases/tag/0.3.0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To wrap up, iRODS S3 API 0.3.0 is available. This release includes support for **ListParts** and **ListMultipartUploads** operations and, more importantly, a ~40% performance improvement for multipart upload. To learn more, see the release notes at [https://github.com/irods/irods_client_s3_api/releases/tag/0.3.0](https://github.com/irods/irods_client_s3_api/releases/tag/0.3.0).
```

Author: Done
